We've made it through the process to
where we now have a clustering solution.
That means in the case of our example,
each store has been
assigned to a cluster.
Or from a business perspective,
each store is in a segment where all
the other stores in the segment should
closely resemble each other and
the word should is key here.
As I've said previously,
clustering is not exact.
When working with multiple variables
to determine the cluster solution,
it can be very likely that objects
in the same cluster are similar for
most of the variables, but
not necessarily all of them.
To take a step back for just a minute,
building a clustering model should
be considered an iterative process.
This means that once you've gone through
the steps to build a good cluster model,
you need to validate that your solution
actually makes sense in the real world.
We've seen that validation occurs
throughout the modeling process and
we discussed that there are a number
of metrics, and indices that can be
used to help determine the best
number of clusters for a solution.
These were referred to as
an internal validation process.
The final step in the clustering process
is to validate the clusters
from external data.
In other words,
try to show from the known data
that the cluster is actually do
indicate differences in results.
Now, this external validation might
indicate that the clusters aren't quite
good enough for the use case and
that's where the iterative nature of
cluster modeling comes into play.
A typical process is to run
some initial cluster models.
Validate the results with external
data and then rerun the modeling
process with differing variables to
see if improvements can be made.